At a basic level, a computer program is
a recipe of instructions that tells your
computer what to do.
When you write a program, you create a
step by step recipe of what needs to be
done to complete a task and when your
computer executes the program it reads
what you wrote and follows your
instructions to the letter.
How nice is that?
The recipe is written in a code called
programming language.
Programming languages are actually
similar to humans spoken languages since
they have a syntax and semantics.
Now if it's been awhile since your last
grammar class, here's a quick refresher
on syntax and semantics.
In a human language, syntax is the
rules for how a sentence is constructed
while semantics refers to the actual
meaning of the statements.
In English, sentences generally have
both a subject, that's a person, place,
or thing and a predicate, usually a
verb and a statement that explains what
the subject is doing. Let's take the
sentence, Paula loves to program in
Python as an example.
In this sentence, Paula is the subject
and loves to program in Python is the
predicate. To form a sentence that
others can understand, you need to know
both the syntax that constructs the
sentence and the semantics that gives it
meaning. The same applies to
programming languages.
In a programming language like Python,
the syntax is the rules for how each
instruction is written and the
semantics is the effects the
instructions have. Much like spoken
languages, there are lots of programming
languages to choose from.
Each has its own history, features, and
applications but they all share the same
fundamental ideas.
So once you understand the basic
concepts in one programming language, it
becomes much easier to learn another.
Lastly, computers always do exactly
what they're told.
So when you write a program, it's
important to be super clear about what
you want the computer to do.
Learning the syntax and semantics of
the programming language you choose will
allow you to do just that.
Make sense? Before we continue, let's
spend a moment on terminology.
In the next few videos you'll hear the
term script being used a bunch.
So what's the difference between a
script and a program?
The line between the two can be a bit
blurry.
In this course, we'll use the terms
interchangeably.
In general, you can think of scripts as
programs with a short development cycle
that can be created and deployed
rapidly.
In other words, a script is a program
that is short, simple, and can be
written very quickly. In this course
we'll focus on a specific scripting
language called python which we'll use
to learn the basics of programming.
We'll learn about the python syntax,
the rules of how to write a python
program, and the semantics or meaning
of the different pieces involved.
Before we start learning how to code
and having you write your first python
script, let's talk more about what
automation is and why it's useful.